Create a guide about adding users to BCI Micro & Minimal (#32)
SUSE/bci-docs: content/guides/adding-users.adoc

---
title: Adding Users to BCI Micro and Minimal
---

{{< hint type="note" >}}
This guide will demonstrate how to add users to the BCI Micro and Minimal
images, without having the `useradd` binary installed.
{{< /hint >}}

== Background

The BCI Micro and Minimal images are tailored towards providing a small
footprint and thus do not ship the `useradd` binary. While this reduces the
image size, creating new users inside containers based on BCI Micro or Minimal
involves a few additional steps.

=== Switch to using the Busybox BCI

BCI Minimal and BCI Micro are lightweight deployment images without a package

> tailored for specific use cases. In case you already do not require a package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
manager and tailored for specific use cases. If you do not require a package
```

manager in your final image and additionally:

1. you do not need `rpm`

> 2. your application runs with POSIX sh and not just Bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. your application runs with POSIX `sh` and not just Bash
```

then consider using the BCI Busybox image instead. It is even smaller than BCI
Micro and ships the Busybox implementation of `useradd`. Adding a new user in

> Busybox is straight forward:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Busybox is straightforward:
```

[source,Dockerfile]
----
FROM registry.suse.com/bci/bci-busybox:15.4
ARG user

# add -H if /home/$user shall not be created
RUN adduser -D $user

USER $user
----

This container can be built using your favorite container runtime as follows:
{{< tabs "build_container_with_added_user">}}
{{< tab "Docker">}}
[source,Shell]
----
docker build --build-arg user=rancher .
----
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "Podman" >}}
[source,Shell]
----
buildah bud --layers --build-arg user=rancher .
----
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "nerdctl" >}}
[source,Shell]
----
nerdctl build --build-arg user=rancher .
----
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> === Using the Base Container to create the Account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Using a Base Container to create the User Account
```

Author: I don't like this one, as I am referring to the bci-base image and not just some base image

Reviewer: Ahh, okay, then it makes sense to keep `the` instead of `a`.

And what about the `User Account` instead of only `Account`?

Author: That makes sense, I've changed it accordingly. Thanks a lot!

Micro or BCI Minimal. This is achieved using the following `Dockerfile`:

[source,Dockerfile]
----
FROM registry.suse.com/bci/bci-base:15.4 as useradder
ARG user
# omit -m if you don't want /home/$user to be created
RUN useradd -m $user

FROM registry.suse.com/bci/bci-micro:15.4
ARG user

COPY --from=useradder /etc/passwd /etc/passwd
COPY --from=useradder /etc/group /etc/group
COPY --from=useradder /etc/shadow /etc/shadow

# subgid & subuid are rarely necessary in containers
# COPY --from=useradder /etc/subgid /etc/subgid
# COPY --from=useradder /etc/subuid /etc/subuid

# some applications will send your user emails, in case yours does that,
# uncomment the following line
# COPY --from=useradder /var/spool/mail/$user /var/spool/mail/$user

# only include this if you kept the -m flag to useradd
COPY --from=useradder /home/$user /home/$user

USER $user

# remaining build / copy instructions go here
----

Build your container image using your favorite container runtime using the
`--build-arg` parameter as in link:#_Switch_to_using_the_Busybox_BCI[Switch to
using the Busybox BCI].

=== Using Busybox to create the User Account

> We can leverage the `adduser` implementation from Busybox's to create new users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can leverage the `adduser` implementation from Busybox to create new users
```

executing its `adduser`. This will *not* work in the Micro image as it lacks
`rpm` to install Busybox.

{{< hint type="Warning" >}}
This approach will leave two rpm files inside a layer of your final container
image, thereby making it slightly bigger than necessary. Consider squashing the
layers to remove this overhead.
{{< /hint >}}

We utilize the BCI Base container once again to download the rpms of Busybox and
`libsepol1` (a dependency of Busybox), copy both rpms into the Minimal image,
add the user and remove both packages afterwards:

[source,Dockerfile]
----
FROM registry.suse.com/bci/bci-base:15.4 as downloader
RUN zypper download busybox libsepol1

FROM registry.suse.com/bci/bci-minimal:15.4
ARG user
ARG arch=x86_64

COPY --from=downloader /var/cache/zypp/packages/SLE_BCI/$arch/*rpm /tmp/

RUN rpm -i /tmp/libsepol1*rpm && rpm -i /tmp/busybox*rpm && \
    busybox adduser -D $user && \
    rpm -e busybox && rpm -e libsepol1 && rm -rf /tmp/*rpm

USER $user
----

Building this container image requires the additional build argument `arch` when
building on non-x86_64 systems. We also squash the layers, if supported by the

> container runtime. Currently `nerdctl` does not support squashing and docker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
container runtime. Currently `nerdctl` does not support squashing and Docker
```
